
We need to add a Spell Casting system which allows players to learn spells in four elemental-based 
magical paths, each path has a square rune button which all illuminate when there are Stat Points available.
Once a path is opened the button changes from illuminated. Proceeding from the the path icon from the right in order is a 
chain of spells that can be researched when enough Stat Points are available. 
It costs 1 Stat Point to open access to a magical path.

For each of the four elemental magical paths create combat, defense and utility spells 
from basic like for example with the Fire path you could have Ignite (select enemy target to do 
rnd5-10 damage unless target makes their d100 Spell Resistance roll)
and for the Water path Freeze Enemy (prevents the enemy from attacking or moving for one combat round)
to mid threat like Firespray and Frost Cone affecting more than one enemy with the damage or freeze effect,
Learning each spell should cost Stat Points osting from 1 to 5 at the top end most game-breaking
advanced op spells like Chain Lightning (d100 damage to all enemies) and Teleport 
(move to any area on the Map with a click).
Add spells that complement the quests, we don't need anything that isn't going to be directly
useful to the player to achieve quest objectives as if the result was the result.

We need to add Damage Ratings to Weapons now just like we added Armour Ratings to Armour items. 
Audit the quests to give every enemy involved in a combat quest their own character stats,
skills, spells and equipment.

Implement the combat system.

The player chooses an enemy (each enemy must be represented in the area centre as an icon so it 
can be selected, this adds a red highlight to the icon, player can deselect which switches off the highlight)
The player rolls Melee Attack using a 'Attack <enemy name string>' button which appears when the enemy is selected.
The enemy rolls Melee Defense to see if they parry the attack, if successful they take no damage.
If unsuccessful the enemy takes the amount of the player's weapon's Damage Rating.
Then enemies get their chance to attack the player in exactly the same way.
Combat continues until either the player or all enemies in the area are dead.
If the player wins they get all the enemies loot.

